Building on pluricultural repertoire

C2_Can initiate and control their actions and forms of expression according to context, showing awareness of cultural differences and making subtle adjustments in order to prevent and/or repair misunderstandings and cultural incidents.

C1_Can identify differences in sociolinguistic/-pragmatic conventions, critically reflect on them and adjust their communication accordingly.
Can sensitively explain the background to and interpret and discuss aspects of cultural values and practices drawing on intercultural encounters, reading, film, etc.
Can deal with ambiguity in cross-cultural communication and express their reactions constructively and culturally appropriately in order to bring clarity.

B2_Can describe and evaluate the viewpoints and practices of their own and other social groups, showing awareness of the implicit values on which judgments and prejudices are frequently based.
Can explain their interpretation of the cultural assumptions, preconceptions, stereotypes and prejudices of their own community and of other communities that they are familiar with.
Can interpret and explain a document or event from another culture and relate it to documents or events from their own culture(s) and/or from cultures with which they are familiar.
Can discuss the objectivity and balance of information and opinions expressed in the media about their own and other communities.
Can identify and reflect on similarities and differences in culturally determined behavioural patterns (e.g. gestures and speech volume or, for sign languages, sign size) and discuss their significance in order to negotiate mutual understanding.
Can, in an intercultural encounter, recognise that what one normally takes for granted in a particular situation is not necessarily shared by others, and can react and express themselves appropriately.
Can generally interpret cultural cues appropriately in the culture concerned.
Can reflect on and explain particular ways of communicating in their own and other cultures, and the risks of misunderstanding they generate.

B1_Can generally act according to conventions regarding posture, eye contact and distance from others.
Can generally respond appropriately to the most commonly used cultural cues.
Can explain features of their own culture to members of another culture or explain features of the other culture to members of their own culture.
Can explain in simple terms how their own values and behaviours influence their views of other people’s values and behaviours.
Can discuss in simple terms the way in which things that may look “strange” to them in another sociocultural context may well be “normal” for the other people concerned.
Can discuss in simple terms the way their own culturally determined actions may be perceived differently by people from other cultures.

A2_Can recognise and apply basic cultural conventions associated with everyday social exchanges (e.g. different greetings, rituals).
Can act appropriately in everyday greetings, farewells and expressions of thanks and apology, although they have difficulty coping with any departure from the routine.
Can recognise that their behaviour in an everyday transaction may convey a message different from the one they intend, and can try to explain this simply.
Can recognise when difficulties occur in interaction with members of other cultures, even though they may not be sure how to behave in the situation.

A1_Can recognise differing ways of numbering, measuring distance, telling the time, etc. even though they may have difficulty applying this in even simple everyday transactions of a concrete type.

Pre-A1	No descriptors available