Facilitating communication in delicate situations and disagreements

C2_Can deal tactfully with a disruptive participant, framing any remarks diplomatically in relation to the situation and cultural perceptions.
Can confidently take a firm but diplomatic stance over an issue of principle, while showing respect for the viewpoints of others.

C1_Can demonstrate sensitivity to different viewpoints, using repetition and paraphrase to demonstrate a detailed understanding of each party’s requirements for an agreement.
Can formulate a diplomatic request to each side in a disagreement to determine what is central to their position, and what they may be willing to give up under certain circumstances.
Can use persuasive language to suggest that parties in disagreement shift towards a new position.

B2+_Can elicit possible solutions from parties in disagreement in order to help them to reach consensus, formulating open-ended, neutral questions to minimise embarrassment or offence.
Can help the parties in a disagreement better understand each other by restating and reframing their positions more clearly and by prioritising needs and goals.
Can formulate a clear and accurate summary of what has been agreed and what is expected from each of the parties.

B2_Can, by asking questions, identify areas of common ground and invite each side to highlight possible solutions.
Can outline the main points in a disagreement with reasonable precision and explain the positions of the parties involved.
Can summarise the statements made by the two sides, highlighting areas of agreement and obstacles to agreement.

B1+_Can ask parties in a disagreement to explain their point of view, and can respond briefly to their explanations, provided the topic is familiar to them and the parties express themselves clearly.

B1_Can demonstrate their understanding of the key issues in a disagreement on a topic familiar to them and make simple requests for confirmation and/or clarification.

A2_Can recognise when people disagree or when difficulties occur in interaction and adapt memorised, simple phrases to seek compromise and agreement.

A1_Can recognise when people disagree or when someone has a problem and can use memorised, simple expressions (e.g. “I understand” or “Are you okay?”) to indicate sympathy.

Pre-A1_No descriptors available