Facilitating pluricultural space
C2_Can mediate effectively and naturally between members of their own and other communities, taking account of sociocultural and sociolinguistic differences.
Can guide a sensitive discussion effectively, identifying nuances and undercurrents.

C1_Can act as a mediator in intercultural encounters, contributing to a shared communication culture by managing ambiguity, offering advice and support, and heading off misunderstandings.
Can anticipate how people might misunderstand what has been said or written and can help maintain positive interaction by commenting on and interpreting different cultural perspectives on the issue concerned.

B2+_Can exploit knowledge of sociocultural conventions in order to establish a consensus on how to proceed in a particular situation that is unfamiliar to everyone involved.
Can, in intercultural encounters, demonstrate appreciation of perspectives other than that of their own worldview, and express themselves in a way appropriate to the context.
Can clarify misunderstandings and misinterpretations during intercultural encounters, suggesting how things were actually meant in order to clear the air and move the discussion forward.

B2_Can encourage a shared communication culture by expressing understanding and appreciation of different ideas, feelings and viewpoints, and inviting participants to contribute and react to each other’s ideas.
Can work collaboratively with people who have different cultural orientations, discussing similarities and differences in views and perspectives.
Can, when collaborating with people from other cultures, adapt the way they work in order to create shared procedures.

B1+_Can support communication across cultures by initiating conversation, showing interest and empathy by asking and answering simple questions, and expressing agreement and understanding.
Can act in a supportive manner in intercultural encounters, recognising the feelings and different worldviews of other members of the group.

B1_Can support an intercultural exchange using a limited repertoire to introduce people from different cultural backgrounds and to ask and answer questions, showing awareness that some questions may be perceived differently in the cultures concerned.
Can help develop a shared communication culture, by exchanging information in a simple way about values and attitudes to language and culture.

A2_Can contribute to an intercultural exchange, using simple words/signs to ask people to explain things and to get clarification of what they say, while exploiting a limited repertoire to express agreement, to invite, to thank, etc.

A1_Can facilitate an intercultural exchange by showing a welcoming attitude and interest with simple words/signs and non-verbal signals, by inviting others to contribute, and by indicating whether they understand when addressed directly.

Pre-A1_No descriptors available