Collaborating to construct meaning

C2_Can summarise, evaluate and link the various contributions in order to facilitate agreement on a solution or a way forward.

C1_Can frame a discussion to decide on a course of action with a partner or group, reporting on what others have said, summarising, elaborating and weighing up multiple points of view.
Can evaluate problems, challenges and proposals in a collaborative discussion in order to decide on the way forward.
Can highlight inconsistencies in thinking, and challenge others’ ideas in the process of trying to reach a consensus.

B2+_Can highlight the main issue that needs to be resolved in a complex task and the important aspects that need to be taken into account.
Can contribute to collaborative decision making and problem solving, expressing and co-developing ideas, explaining details and making suggestions for future action.
Can help organise the discussion in a group by reporting what others have said, summarising, elaborating and weighing up different points of view.

B2_Can further develop other people’s ideas and opinions.
Can present their ideas in a group and pose questions that invite reactions from other group members’ perspectives.
Can consider two different sides of an issue, giving arguments for and against, and propose a solution or compromise.

B1+_Can organise the work in a straightforward collaborative task by stating the aim and explaining in a simple manner the main issue that needs to be resolved.
Can use questions, comments and simple reformulations to maintain the focus of a discussion.

B1_Can ask a group member to give the reason(s) for their views.
Can repeat part of what someone has said to confirm mutual understanding and help keep the development of ideas on course.

A2+_Can ensure that the person they are addressing understands what they mean by asking appropriate questions.

A2_Can make simple remarks and pose occasional questions to indicate that they are following.
Can make suggestions in a simple way.

A1_Can express an idea and ask what others think, using very simple words/signs and phrases, provided they can prepare in advance.

Pre-A1_No descriptors available