Translating a written text in speech or sign

C2_Can provide fluent oral translation (into Language B) of abstract texts (written in Language A) on a wide range of subjects of personal, academic and professional interest, successfully conveying evaluative aspects and arguments, including the nuances and implications associated with them.

C1_Can provide fluent oral translation (into Language B) of complex texts (written in Language A) on a wide range of general and specialised topics, capturing most nuances.

B2+_Can provide oral translation (into Language B) of complex texts (written in Language A) containing information and arguments on subjects within their fields of professional, academic and personal interest.

B2_Can provide oral translation (into Language B) of texts (written in Language A) containing information and arguments on subjects within their fields of professional, academic and personal interest, provided they are written in uncomplicated, standard language.

B1+_Can provide an approximate oral translation (into Language B) of clear, well-structured informational texts (written in Language A) on subjects that are familiar or of personal interest, although lexical limitations cause difficulty with formulation at times.

B1_Can provide an approximate oral translation (into Language B) of clear, well-structured informational texts (written in Language A) on subjects that are familiar or of personal interest, although lexical limitations cause difficulty with formulation at times.

A2+_Can provide an approximate oral translation (into Language B) of short, simple, everyday texts (e.g. brochure entries, notices, instructions, letters or e-mails) (written in Language A).

A2_Can provide a simple, rough oral translation (into Language B) of short, simple texts (e.g. notices on familiar subjects) (written in Language A), capturing the most essential point.
Can provide a simple, rough oral translation (into Language B) of routine information on familiar everyday subjects that is written in simple sentences (in Language A) (e.g. personal news, short narratives, directions, notices or instructions).

A1_Can provide a simple, rough oral translation (into Language B) of simple everyday words/signs and phrases (written in Language A) that are encountered on signs and notices, posters, programmes, leaflets, etc.

Pre-A1_No descriptors available