Processing text in writing

C2_Can explain in writing (in Language B) the way that facts and arguments are presented in a text (in Language A), particularly when someone else’s position is being reported, drawing attention to the use of understatement, veiled criticism, irony and sarcasm.
Can summarise information from different sources, reconstructing arguments and accounts in a coherent presentation of the overall result.

C1_Can summarise in writing (in Language B) long, complex texts (in Language A), interpreting the content appropriately, provided they can occasionally check the precise meaning of unusual, technical terms.
Can summarise in writing a long and complex text (in Language A) (e.g. an academic article, article providing political analysis, novel extract, editorial, literary review, report or extract from a scientific book) for a specific audience, respecting the style and register of the original.

B2+_Can summarise in writing (in Language B) the main content of well-structured but propositionally complex texts (in Language A) on subjects within their fields of professional, academic and personal interest.
Can compare, contrast and synthesise in writing (in Language B) the information and viewpoints contained in academic and professional publications (in Language A) in their fields of special interest.
Can explain in writing (in Language B) the viewpoint articulated in a complex text (in Language A), supporting inferences they make with reference to specific information in the original.

B2_Can summarise in writing (in Language B) the main content of complex texts (in Language A) on subjects related to their fields of interest and specialisation.

B1+_Can summarise in writing (in Language B) the information and arguments contained in texts (in Language A) on subjects of general or personal interest.

B1_Can summarise in writing (in Language B) the main points made in straightforward, informational texts (in Language A) on subjects that are of personal or current interest, provided oral texts are clearly articulated.
Can paraphrase short passages in a simple fashion, using the original text wording and ordering.

A2+_Can list as a series of bullet points (in Language B) the relevant information contained in short simple texts (in Language A), provided the texts concern concrete, familiar subjects and contain only simple everyday language.
Can pick out and reproduce key words and phrases or short sentences from a short text within the learner’s limited competence and experience.

A2_Can use simple language to convey (in Language B) the main point(s) contained in very short texts (in Language A) on familiar and everyday themes that contain the highest frequency vocabulary; despite errors, the text remains comprehensible.
Can copy out short texts in printed or clearly handwritten format.

A1_Can, with the help of a dictionary, convey (in Language B) the meaning of simple phrases (in Language A) on familiar and everyday themes.
Can copy out single words and short texts presented in standard printed format.

Pre-A1_No descriptors available
