Note-taking (lectures, seminars, meetings, etc.)

C2_Can, while continuing to participate in a meeting or seminar, create reliable notes (or minutes) for people who are not present, even when the subject matter is complex and/or unfamiliar.
Is aware of the implications and allusions of what is said and can take notes on them as well as on the actual words used.
Can take notes selectively, paraphrasing and abbreviating successfully to capture abstract concepts and relationships between ideas.

C1_Can take detailed notes during a lecture on topics in their field of interest, recording the information so accurately and so closely to the original that the notes could also be useful to other people.
Can make decisions about what to note down and what to omit as the lecture or seminar proceeds, even on unfamiliar matters.
Can select relevant, detailed information and arguments on complex, abstract topics from multiple oral sources (e.g. lectures, podcasts, formal discussions and debates, interviews), provided the delivery is at normal speed.

B2_Can understand a clearly structured lecture on a familiar subject, and can take notes on points which strike them as important, even though they tend to concentrate on the actual formulation and therefore to miss some information.
Can take accurate notes in meetings and seminars on most matters likely to arise within their field of interest.

B1+_Can take notes during a lecture which are precise enough for their own use at a later date, provided the topic is within their field of interest and the lecture is clear and well structured.

B1_Can take notes as a list of key points during a straightforward lecture, provided the topic is familiar, and the lecture is both formulated in simple language and articulated clearly.
Can note down routine instructions in a meeting on a familiar subject, provided these are formulated in simple language and they are given sufficient time to do so.

A2_Can take simple notes at a presentation/demonstration where the subject matter is familiar and predictable and the presenter allows for clarification and note-taking.

A1_No descriptors available

Pre-A1_No descriptors available