Processing text in speech or sign

C2_Can explain (in Language B) inferences when links or implications are not made explicit (in Language A), and point out the sociocultural implications of the form of expression (e.g. understatement, irony, sarcasm).

C1_Can summarise (in Language B) long, demanding texts (in Language A).
Can summarise (in Language B) discussion (in Language A) on matters within their academic or professional competence, elaborating and weighing up different points of view and identifying the most significant points.
Can summarise clearly in well-structured language (in Language B) the main points made in complex texts (in Language A) in fields of specialisation other than their own, although they may occasionally check particular technical concepts.
Can explain (in Language B) subtle distinctions in the presentation of facts and arguments (in Language A).
Can exploit information and arguments from a complex text (in Language A) to discuss a topic (in Language B), glossing with evaluative comments, adding their opinion, etc.
Can explain (in Language B) the attitude or opinion expressed in a source text (in Language A) on a specialised topic, supporting inferences they make with reference to specific passages in the original.

B2+_Can summarise clearly in well-structured language (in Language B) the information and arguments contained in complex texts (in Language A) on a wide range of subjects related to their fields of interest and specialisation.
Can summarise (in Language B) the main points of complex discussions (in Language A), weighing up the different points of view presented

B2_Can synthesise and report (in Language B) information and arguments from a number of sources (in Language A).
Can summarise (in Language B) a wide range of factual and imaginative texts (in Language A), commenting on and discussing contrasting points of view and the main themes.
Can summarise (in Language B) the important points made in longer, complex texts (in Language A) on subjects of current interest, including their fields of special interest.
Can recognise the intended audience of a text (in Language A) on a topic of interest and explain (in Language B) the purpose, attitudes and opinion of the author.
Can summarise (in Language B) extracts from news items, interviews or documentaries containing opinions, arguments and discussions (in Language A).
Can summarise (in Language B) the plot and sequence of events in a film or play (in Language A).

B1+_Can summarise (in Language B) the main points made in long texts (in Language A) on topics in their fields of interest, provided they can check the meaning of certain expressions.
Can summarise (in Language B) a short narrative or article, talk, discussion, interview or documentary (in Language A) and answer further questions about details.
Can collate short pieces of information from several sources (in Language A) and summarise them (in Language B) for somebody else

B1_Can summarise (in Language B) the main points made in clear, well-structured texts (in Language A) on subjects that are familiar or of personal interest, although lexical limitations cause difficulty with formulation at times.
Can summarise simply (in Language B) the main information content of straightforward texts (in Language A) on familiar subjects (e.g. a short record of an interview, magazine article, travel brochure).
Can summarise (in Language B) the main points made during a conversation (in Language A) on a subject of personal or current interest, provided people articulated clearly.
Can summarise (in Language B) the main points made in long texts delivered orally (in Language A) on topics in their fields of interest, provided they can listen or view several times.
Can summarise (in Language B) the main points or events in TV programmes and video clips (in Language A), provided they can view them several times.

A2+_Can report (in Language B) the main points made in simple TV or radio news items (in Language A) reporting events, sports, accidents, etc., provided the topics concerned are familiar and the delivery is slow and clear
Can report in simple sentences (in Language B) the information contained in clearly structured, short, simple texts (in Language A) that have illustrations or tables.
Can summarise (in Language B) the main point(s) in simple, short informational texts (in Language A) on familiar topics.

A2_Can convey (in Language B) the main point(s) contained in clearly structured, short, simple texts (in Language A), supplementing their limited repertoire with other means (e.g. gestures, drawings, words/signs from other languages) in order to do so.

A1_Can convey (in Language B) simple, predictable information given in short, very simple signs and notices, posters and programmes (in Language A)

Pre-A1_ No descriptors available