Analysis and criticism of creative texts (including literature)

C2_Can give a critical appraisal of work of different periods and genres (e.g. novels, poems and plays), appreciating subtle distinctions of style and implicit as well as explicit meaning.
Can recognise the finer subtleties of nuanced language, rhetorical effect and stylistic language use (e.g. metaphors, abnormal syntax, ambiguity), interpreting and “unpacking” meanings and connotations.
Can critically evaluate the way in which structure, language and rhetorical devices are exploited in a work for a particular purpose and give a reasoned argument concerning their appropriateness and effectiveness.
Can give a critical appreciation of deliberate breaches of linguistic conventions in a piece of writing.

C1_Can critically appraise a wide variety of texts including literary works of different periods and genres.
Can evaluate the extent to which a work follows the conventions of its genre.
Can describe and comment on ways in which the work engages the audience (e.g. by building up and subverting expectations).

B2_Can compare two works, considering themes, characters and scenes, exploring similarities and contrasts and explaining the relevance of the connections between them.
Can give a reasoned opinion of a work, showing awareness of the thematic, structural and formal features and referring to the opinions and arguments of others.
Can evaluate the way the work encourages identification with characters, giving examples.
Can describe the way in which different works differ in their treatment of the same theme.

B1_Can point out the most important episodes and events in a clearly structured narrative in everyday language and explain the significance of events and the connections between them.
Can describe the key themes and characters in short narratives involving familiar situations that contain only high frequency everyday language.

A2_Can identify and briefly describe, in basic formulaic language, the key themes and characters in short, simple narratives involving familiar situations that contain only high frequency everyday language.

A1_No descriptors available

Pre-A1_No descriptors available