Creative writing

C2_Can relate clear, smoothly flowing and engaging stories and descriptions of experience in a style 
appropriate to the genre adopted.
Can exploit idiom and humour appropriately to enhance the impact of the text.

C1_Can produce clear, detailed, well-structured and developed descriptions and imaginative texts in an 
assured, personal, natural style appropriate to the reader in mind.
Can incorporate idiom and humour, though use of the latter is not always appropriate.
Can give a detailed critical review of cultural events (e.g. plays, films, concerts) or literary works.

B2+_Can give clear, detailed descriptions of real or imaginary events and experiences marking the relationship 
between ideas in clear connected text, and following established conventions of the genre concerned.

B2_Can give clear, detailed descriptions on a variety of subjects related to their field of interest.
Can give a review of a film, book or play.

B1+_Can clearly signal chronological sequence in narrative text.
Can give a simple review of a film, book or TV programme using a limited range of language.

B1_Can give straightforward, detailed descriptions on a range of familiar subjects within their field of interest.
Can give accounts of experiences, describing feelings and reactions in simple, connected text.
Can give a description of an event, a recent trip – real or imagined.
Can narrate a story.

A2+_Can describe everyday aspects of their environment e.g. people, places, a job or study experience in linked 
sentences.
Can give very short, basic descriptions of events, past activities and personal experiences.
Can tell a simple story (e.g. about events on a holiday or about life in the distant future).

A2_Can produce a series of simple phrases and sentences about their family, living conditions, educational 
background, or present or most recent job.
Can create short, simple imaginary biographies and simple poems about people.
Can create diary entries that describe activities (e.g. daily routine, outings, sports, hobbies), people and 
places, using basic, concrete vocabulary and simple phrases and sentences with simple connectives like 
“and”, “but” and “because”.
Can compose an introduction to a story or continue a story, provided they can consult a dictionary and 
references (e.g. tables of verb tenses in a course book).

A1_Can produce simple phrases and sentences about themselves and imaginary people, where they live and 
what they do.
Can describe in very simple language what a room looks like.
Can use simple words/signs and phrases to describe certain everyday objects (e.g. the colour of a car, 
whether it is big or small).

Pre-A1_No descriptors available
