Understanding conversation between other people

C2_Can identify the sociocultural implications of most of the language used in colloquial discussions that 
take place at a natural speed.

C1_Can easily follow complex interactions between third parties in group discussion and debate, even on 
abstract, complex, unfamiliar topics.
Can identify the attitude of each participant in an animated discussion characterised by overlapping 
turns, digressions and colloquialisms that is delivered at a natural speed in varieties that are familiar.

B2+_Can keep up with an animated conversation between proficient users of the target language.

B2_Can with some effort catch much of what is said around them, but may find it difficult to participate 
effectively in discussion with several users of the target language who do not modify their language in 
any way.
Can identify the main reasons for and against an argument or idea in a discussion conducted in clear 
standard language or a familiar variety.
Can follow chronological sequence in extended informal discourse, e.g. in a story or anecdote.

B1+_Can follow much of everyday conversation and discussion, provided it is clearly articulated in standard 
language or in a familiar variety.

B1_Can generally follow the main points of extended discussion around them, provided it is clearly 
articulated in standard language or a familiar variety.

A2+_Can generally identify the topic of discussion around them when it is conducted slowly and clearly.
Can recognise when people agree and disagree in a conversation conducted slowly and clearly.

A2_Can follow in outline short, simple social exchanges, conducted very slowly and clearly.

A1_Can understand some expressions when people are discussing them, family, school, hobbies or 
surroundings, provided the delivery is slow and clear.
Can understand words/signs and short sentences in a simple conversation (e.g. between a customer and 
a salesperson in a shop), provided people communicate very slowly and very clearly.

Pre-A1 No descriptors availabl