Understanding as a member of a live audience

C2_Can follow specialised lectures and presentations employing colloquialism, regional usage or unfamiliar 
terminology.
Can make appropriate inferences when links or implications are not made explicit.
Can get the point of jokes or allusions in a presentation.

C1_Can follow most lectures, discussions and debates with relative ease.

B2+_Can follow the essentials of lectures, talks and reports and other forms of academic/professional 
presentation which are propositionally and linguistically complex.
Can understand the point of view expressed on topics that are of current interest or that relate to their 
specialised field, provided the talk is delivered in standard language or a familiar variety.

B2_Can follow complex lines of argument in a clearly articulated lecture, provided the topic is reasonably 
familiar.
Can distinguish main themes from asides, provided the lecture or talk is delivered in standard language or 
a familiar variety.
Can recognise the point of view expressed and distinguish this from facts being reporting.

B1+_Can follow a lecture or talk within their own field, provided the subject matter is familiar and the 
presentation straightforward and clearly structured.
Can distinguish between main ideas and supporting details in standard lectures on familiar subjects, 
provided these are delivered in clearly articulated standard language or a familiar variety.

B1_Can follow in outline straightforward short talks on familiar topics, provided these are delivered in clearly 
articulated standard language or a familiar variety.
Can follow a straightforward conference presentation or demonstration with visual support (e.g. slides, 
handouts) on a topic or product within their field, understanding explanations given.
Can understand the main points of what is said in a straightforward monologue (e.g. a guided tour), 
provided the delivery is clear and relatively slow.

A2+_Can follow the general outline of a demonstration or presentation on a familiar or predictable topic, where 
the message is expressed slowly and clearly in simple language and there is visual support (e.g. slides, 
handouts).

A2_Can follow a very simple, well-structured presentation or demonstration, provided it is illustrated with 
slides, concrete examples or diagrams, it is delivered slowly and clearly with repetition, and the topic is 
familiar.
Can understand the outline of simple information given in a predictable situation, such as on a guided tour 
(e.g. “This is where the President lives”).

A1 Can understand in outline very simple information being explained in a predictable situation like a guided 
tour, provided the delivery is very slow and clear and that there are long pauses from time to time.

Pre-A1 No descriptors available.