Reading as a leisure activity

C2_Can read virtually all forms of texts including classical or colloquial literary and non-literary texts in 
different genres, appreciating subtle distinctions of style and implicit as well as explicit meaning.

C1_Can read and appreciate a variety of literary texts, provided they can reread certain sections and that they 
can access reference tools if they wish.
Can read contemporary literary texts and non-fiction produced in the standard form of the language or a 
familiar variety with little difficulty and with appreciation of implicit meanings and ideas.

B2_Can read for pleasure with a large degree of independence, adapting style and speed of reading to 
different texts (e.g. magazines, more straightforward novels, history books, biographies, travelogues, 
guides, lyrics, poems), using appropriate reference sources selectively.
Can read novels with a strong, narrative plot and that use straightforward, unelaborated language, 
provided they can take their time and use a dictionary.

B1+_Can read newspaper/magazine accounts of films, books, concerts, etc. produced for a wider audience and 
understand the main points.
Can understand simple poems and song lyrics provided these employ straightforward language and style.

B1_Can understand descriptions of places, events, explicitly expressed feelings and perspectives in narratives, 
guides and magazine articles that employ high frequency everyday language.
Can understand a travel diary mainly describing the events of a journey and the experiences and 
discoveries of the writer.
Can follow the plot of stories, simple novels and comics with a clear linear storyline and high frequency 
everyday language, given regular use of a dictionary.

A2+_Can understand enough to read short, simple stories and comic strips involving familiar, concrete 
situations described in high frequency everyday language.
Can understand the main points made in short magazine reports or guide entries that deal with concrete 
everyday topics (e.g. hobbies, sports, leisure activities, animals).

A2_Can understand short narratives and descriptions of someone’s life composed in simple language.
Can understand what is happening in a photo story (e.g. in a lifestyle magazine) and form an impression of 
what the characters are like.
Can understand much of the information provided in a short description of a person (e.g. a celebrity).
Can understand the main point of a short article reporting an event that follows a predictable pattern (e.g. 
the Oscars), provided it is composed clearly in simple language.

A1_Can understand short, illustrated narratives about everyday activities described in simple words.
Can understand in outline short texts in illustrated stories, provided the images help them to guess at a lot 
of the content.

Pre-A1_No descriptors available