Reading for information and argument

C2_Can understand the finer points and implications of a complex report or article even outside their area of 
specialisation.

C1_Can understand in detail a wide range of lengthy, complex texts likely to be encountered in social, 
professional or academic life, identifying finer points of detail including attitudes and implied as well as 
stated opinions.

B2+_Can obtain information, ideas and opinions from highly specialised sources within their field.
Can understand specialised articles outside their field, provided they can use a dictionary occasionally to 
confirm their interpretation of terminology.

B2_Can understand articles and reports concerned with contemporary problems in which particular stances or 
viewpoints are adopted.
Can recognise when a text provides factual information and when it seeks to convince readers of 
something.
Can recognise different structures in discursive text: contrasting arguments, problem–solution 
presentation and cause–effect relationships.

B1+_Can understand straightforward, factual texts on subjects relating to their interests or studies.
Can understand short texts on subjects that are familiar or of current interest, in which people give their 
points of view (e.g. critical contributions to an online discussion forum or readers’ letters to the editor).
Can identify the main conclusions in clearly signalled argumentative texts.
Can recognise the line of argument in the treatment of the issue presented, though not necessarily in detail.

B1_Can recognise significant points in straightforward news articles on familiar subjects.
Can understand most factual information that they are likely to come across on familiar subjects of interest, 
provided they have sufficient time for rereading.
Can understand the main points in descriptive notes such as those on museum exhibits and explanatory 
boards in exhibitions.

A2+_Can identify specific information in simpler material they encounter such as letters, brochures and short 
news articles describing events.
Can follow the general outline of a news report on a familiar type of event, provided the contents are 
familiar and predictable.
Can pick out the main information in short news reports or simple articles in which figures, names, 
illustrations and titles play a prominent role and support the meaning of the text.
Can understand the main points of short texts dealing with everyday topics (e.g. lifestyle, hobbies, sports, 
weather).

A2_Can understand texts describing people, places, everyday life and culture, etc., provided they use simple 
language.
Can understand information given in illustrated brochures and maps (e.g. the principal attractions of a city).
Can understand the main points in short news items on subjects of personal interest (e.g. sport, celebrities).
Can understand a short factual description or report within their own field, provided simple language is 
used and that it does not contain unpredictable detail.
Can understand most of what people say about themselves in a personal ad or post and what they say they 
like in other people.

A1_Can get an idea of the content of simpler informational material and short, simple descriptions, especially if 
there is visual support.
Can understand short texts on subjects of personal interest (e.g. news flashes about sports, music, travel or 
stories) composed in very simple language and supported by illustrations and pictures.

Pre-A1_Can understand the simplest informational material such as a fast-food restaurant menu illustrated with 
photos or an illustrated story formulated in very simple everyday words/signs.