Reading for orientation

C2_No descriptors available; see B2

C1_No descriptors available; see B2

B2+_Can scan quickly through several sources (articles, reports, websites, books, etc.) in parallel, in both their own field and in related fields, and can identify the relevance and usefulness of particular sections for the task at hand.

B2_Can scan quickly through long and complex texts, locating relevant details.
Can quickly identify the content and relevance of news items, articles and reports on a wide range of professional topics, deciding whether closer study is worthwhile.

B1+_Can scan longer texts in order to locate desired information, and gather information from different parts of a text, or from different texts in order to fulfil a specific task.
Can scan through straightforward, factual texts in magazines, brochures or on the web, identify what they are about and decide whether they contain information that might be of practical use.

B1_Can find and understand relevant information in everyday material, such as letters, brochures and short official documents.
Can pick out important information about preparation and usage on the labels on foodstuff and medicine.
Can assess whether an article, report or review is on the required topic.
Can understand the important information in simple, clearly drafted adverts in newspapers or magazines, provided there are not too many abbreviations.

A2+_Can find specific information in practical, concrete, predictable texts (e.g. travel guidebooks, recipes), provided they are produced in simple language.
Can understand the main information in short and simple descriptions of goods in brochures and websites (e.g. portable digital devices, cameras).

A2_Can find specific, predictable information in simple everyday material such as advertisements, prospectuses, menus, reference lists and timetables.
Can locate specific information in lists and isolate the information required (e.g. use the Yellow Pages to find a service or tradesman).
Can understand everyday signs and notices, etc. in public places, such as streets, restaurants, railway stations; in workplaces, such as directions, instructions, hazard warnings.

A1_Can recognise familiar names, words/signs and very basic phrases on simple notices in the most common everyday situations.
Can understand store guides (information on which floors departments are on) and directions (eg. where to find lifts).
Can understand basic hotel information (e.g. times when meals are served).
Can find and understand simple, important information in advertisements, programmes for special events, leaflets and brochures (e.g. what is proposed, costs, the date and place of the event, departure times).

Pre-A1_Can understand simple everyday signs such as “Parking”, “Station”, “Dining room”, “No smoking”, etc.
Can find information about places, times and prices on posters, flyers and notices.