Reading correspondence

C2_Can understand specialised, formal correspondence on a complex topic.

C1_Can understand any correspondence given the occasional use of a dictionary.
Can understand implicit as well as explicit attitudes, emotions and opinions expressed in e-mails, discussion forums, vlogs/blogs, etc., provided there are opportunities for rereading and they have access to reference tools.
Can understand slang, idiomatic expressions and jokes in private correspondence.

B2_Can read correspondence relating to their field of interest and readily grasp the essential meaning.
Can understand what is said in a personal e-mail or posting even where some colloquial language is used.


B1+_Can understand formal correspondence on less familiar subjects well enough to redirect it to someone 
else. 

B1_Can understand the description of events, feelings and wishes in personal letters well enough to correspond regularly with a pen friend.
Can understand straightforward personal letters, e-mails or postings giving a relatively detailed account of events and experiences.
Can understand standard formal correspondence and online postings in their area of professional interest.

A2+_Can understand a simple personal letter, e-mail or post in which the person writing is talking about familiar subjects (such as friends or family) or asking questions on these subjects.
Can understand basic types of standard routine letters and faxes (enquiries, orders, letters of confirmation, etc.) on familiar topics.

A2+_Can understand short, simple personal letters.
Can understand very simple formal e-mails and letters (e.g. confirmation of a booking or online purchase).

A1_Can understand short, simple messages on postcards.
Can understand short, simple messages sent via social media or e-mail (e.g. proposing what to do, when and where to meet).

Pre-A1_Can understand from a letter, card or e-mail the event to which they are being invited and the information given about day, time and location.
Can recognise times and places in very simple notes and text messages from friends or colleagues (e.g. “Back at 4 o’clock” or “In the meeting room”), provided there are no abbreviations.