Identifying cues and inferring (spoken, signed and written)

C2_No descriptors available; see C1

C1_Is skilled at using contextual, grammatical and lexical cues to infer attitude, mood and intentions and 
anticipate what will come next.

B2_Can use a variety of strategies to achieve comprehension, including watching out for main points and checking comprehension by using contextual clues.

B1+_Can exploit different types of connectors (numerical, temporal, logical) and the role of key paragraphs in 
the overall organisation in order to better understand the argumentation in a text.
Can extrapolate the meaning of a section of a text by taking into account the text as a whole.
Can identify the meaning of unfamiliar words/signs from the context on topics related to their field and 
interests.
Can extrapolate the meaning of occasional unknown words/signs from the context and deduce sentence meaning, provided the topic discussed is familiar.

B1_Can make basic inferences or predictions about text content from headings, titles or headlines.
Can watch or listen to a short narrative and predict what will happen next.
Can follow a line of argumentation or the sequence of events in a story, by focusing on common logical connectors (e.g. however, because) and temporal connectors (e.g. after that, beforehand).
Can deduce the probable meaning of unknown words/signs in a text by identifying their constituent parts 
(e.g. identifying roots, lexical elements, suffixes and prefixes).

A2+_Can use an idea of the overall meaning of short texts and utterances on everyday topics of a concrete type 
to derive the probable meaning of unknown words/signs from the context.
Can exploit their recognition of known words/signs to deduce the meaning of unfamiliar words/signs in short expressions used in routine everyday contexts.

A2_Can exploit format, appearance and typographic features in order to identify the type of text: news story, 
promotional text, article, textbook, chat or forum, etc.
Can exploit numbers, dates, names, proper nouns, etc. to identify the topic of a text.
Can deduce the meaning and function of unknown formulaic expressions from their position in a text (e.g. 
at the beginning or end of a letter).

A1_Can deduce the meaning of an unknown word/sign for a concrete action or object, provided the 
surrounding text is very simple, and on a familiar everyday subject.
Can guess the probable meaning of an unknown word/sign that is similar to one in the language they 
normally use.

Pre-A1_Can deduce the meaning of a word/sign from an accompanying picture or icon.