Acting as an intermediary in informal situations (with friends and colleagues)

C2_Can communicate in a clear, fluent, well-structured way (in Language B) the sense of what is said (in Language A) on a wide range of general and specialised topics, maintaining appropriate style and register, conveying finer shades of meaning and elaborating on sociocultural implications.

C1_Can communicate fluently (in Language B) the sense of what is said (in Language A) on a wide range of subjects of personal, academic and professional interest, conveying significant information clearly and concisely as well as explaining cultural references.

B2+_Can mediate (between Language A and Language B) conveying detailed information, drawing the attention of both sides to background information and sociocultural cues, and posing clarification and follow-up questions or statements as necessary.

B2_Can communicate (in Language B) the sense of what is said in a welcome address, anecdote or presentation in their field (given in Language A), interpreting cultural cues appropriately and giving additional explanations when necessary, provided the presenter stops frequently in order to allow time for them to do so.
Can communicate (in Language B) the sense of what is said (in Language A) on subjects within their fields of interest, conveying and when necessary explaining the significance of important statements and viewpoints, provided the interlocutors give clarifications if needed.

B1+_Can communicate (in Language B) the main sense of what is said (in Language A) on subjects within their fields of interest, conveying straightforward factual information and explicit cultural references, provided they can prepare beforehand and that the interlocutors articulate clearly in everyday language.

B1_Can communicate (in Language B) the main sense of what is said (in Language A) on subjects of personal interest, while following important politeness conventions, provided the interlocutors articulate clearly and they can ask for clarification and pause to plan how to express things.

A2+_Can communicate (in Language B) the overall sense of what is said (in Language A) in everyday situations, following basic cultural conventions and conveying the essential information, provided this is articulated clearly and they can ask for repetition and clarification.

A2_Can communicate (in Language B) the main point of what is said (in Language A) in predictable everyday situations, conveying back and forth information about personal wants and needs, provided other people help with formulation.

A1_Can communicate (in Language B) other people’s personal details and very simple, predictable information (in Language A), provided other people help with formulation.

Pre-A1_No descriptors available