Relaying specific information in speech or sign

C2_No descriptors available; see C1

C1_Can explain (in Language B) the relevance of specific information found in a particular section of a long, complex text (in Language A).

B2+_Can relay (in Language B) which presentations given (in Language A) at a conference, or which articles in a book (in Language A) are particularly relevant for a specific purpose.

B2_Can relay (in Language B) the main point(s) contained in formal correspondence and/or reports (in Language A) on general subjects and on subjects related to their fields of interest.

B1_Can relay (in Language B) the content of public announcements and messages delivered clearly at normal speed (in Language A).
Can relay (in Language B) the contents of detailed instructions or directions, provided these are clearly articulated (in Language A).
Can relay (in Language B) specific information given in straightforward informational texts (e.g. leaflets, brochure entries, notices and letters or e-mails) (in Language A)

A2+_Can relay (in Language B) the point made in a clear announcement (in Language A) concerning familiar everyday subjects, though they may have to simplify the message and search for words/signs.
Can relay (in Language B) specific, relevant information contained in short, simple texts, labels and notices (in Language A) on familiar subjects

A2_Can relay (in Language B) the point made in short, clear, simple messages, instructions and announcements, provided these are expressed slowly and clearly in simple language (in Language A).
Can relay (in Language B) in a simple way a series of short, simple instructions, provided the original (in Language A) is clearly and slowly articulated.

A1_Can relay (in Language B) simple, predictable information about times and places given in short, simple statements (delivered in Language A).

Pre-A1_Can relay (in Language B) simple instructions about places and times (given in Language A), provided these are repeated very slowly and clearly.
Can relay (in Language B) very basic information (e.g. numbers and prices) from short, simple, illustrated texts (in Language A)