General linguistic range

C2_Can exploit a comprehensive and reliable mastery of a very wide range of language to formulate thoughts precisely, give emphasis, differentiate and eliminate ambiguity. No signs of having to restrict what they want to say.

C1_Can use a broad range of complex grammatical structures appropriately and with considerable flexibility.
Can select an appropriate formulation from a broad range of language to express themselves clearly, without having to restrict what they want to say.

B2+_Can express themselves clearly without much sign of having to restrict what they want to say.

B2_Has a sufficient range of language to be able to give clear descriptions, express viewpoints and develop arguments without much conspicuous searching for words/signs, using some complex sentence forms to do so.

B1+_Has a sufficient range of language to describe unpredictable situations, explain the main points in an idea or problem with reasonable precision and express thoughts on abstract or cultural topics such as music and film.

B1_Has enough language to get by, with sufficient vocabulary to express themselves with some hesitation and circumlocutions on topics such as family, hobbies and interests, work, travel and current events, but lexical limitations cause repetition and even difficulty with formulation at times.

A2+_Has a repertoire of basic language which enables them to deal with everyday situations with predictable content, though they will generally have to compromise the message and search for words/signs.

A2_Can produce brief, everyday expressions in order to satisfy simple needs of a concrete type (e.g. personal details, daily routines, wants and needs, requests for information).
Can use basic sentence patterns and communicate with memorised phrases, groups of a few words/signs and formulae about themselves and other people, what they do, places, possessions, etc.
Has a limited repertoire of short, memorised phrases covering predictable survival situations; frequent breakdowns and misunderstandings occur in non-routine situations.

A1_Has a very basic range of simple expressions about personal details and needs of a concrete type.
Can use some basic structures in one-clause sentences with some omission or reduction of elements.

Pre-A1_Can use isolated words/signs and basic expressions in order to give simple information about themselves.