Thematic development

C2_Can use the conventions of the type of text concerned with sufficient flexibility to communicate complex ideas in an effective way, holding the target reader’s attention with ease and fulfilling all communicative purposes.

C1_Can use the conventions of the type of text concerned to hold the target reader’s attention and communicate complex ideas.
Can give elaborate descriptions and narratives, integrating sub-themes, developing particular points and rounding off with an appropriate conclusion.
Can write a suitable introduction and conclusion to a long, complex text.
Can expand and support the main points at some length with subsidiary points, reasons and relevant examples.

B2+_Can develop an argument systematically with appropriate highlighting of significant points, and relevant supporting detail.
Can present and respond to complex lines of argument convincingly.

B2_Can follow the conventional structure of the communicative task concerned when communicating their ideas.
Can develop a clear description or narrative, expanding and supporting their main points with relevant supporting detail and examples.
Can develop a clear argument, expanding and supporting their points of view at some length with subsidiary points and relevant examples.
Can evaluate the advantages and disadvantages of various options.
Can clearly signal the difference between fact and opinion.

B1+_Can clearly signal chronological sequence in narrative text.
Can develop an argument well enough to be followed without difficulty most of the time.

B1_Shows awareness of the conventional structure of the text type concerned when communicating their ideas.
Can reasonably fluently relate a straightforward narrative or description as a sequence of points.

A2+_Can tell a story or describe something in a simple list of points.
Can give an example of something in a very simple text using “like” or “for example”.

A2_No descriptors available

A1_No descriptors available

Pre-A1_No descriptors available