Sociolinguistic appropriateness

C2_Can mediate effectively and naturally between users of the target language and members of their own community, taking account of sociocultural and sociolinguistic differences.
Has a good command of idiomatic expressions and colloquialisms with awareness of connotative levels of meaning.
Appreciates virtually all the sociolinguistic and sociocultural implications of language used by proficient users of the target language and can react accordingly.
Can effectively employ, both orally and in writing, a wide variety of sophisticated language to command, argue, persuade, dissuade, negotiate and counsel.

C1	Can recognise a wide range of idiomatic expressions and colloquialisms, appreciating register shifts; may, however, need to confirm occasional details, especially if the accent is unfamiliar.
Can understand humour, irony and implicit cultural references and pick up nuances of meaning.
Can follow films employing a considerable degree of slang and idiomatic usage.
Can use language flexibly and effectively for social purposes, including emotional, allusive and joking usage.
Can adjust their level of formality (register and style) to suit the social context: formal, informal or colloquial as appropriate, and maintain a consistent register.
Can frame critical remarks or express strong disagreement diplomatically.

B2+_Can with some effort keep up with and contribute to group discussions even when talk is fast and colloquial.
Can recognise and interpret sociocultural/sociolinguistic cues and consciously modify their linguistic forms of expression in order to express themselves appropriately in the situation.
Can express themselves confidently, clearly and politely in a formal or informal register, appropriate to the situation and person(s) concerned.

B2_Can adjust their expression to make some distinction between formal and informal registers but may not always do so appropriately.
Can sustain relationships with users of the target language without unintentionally amusing or irritating them or requiring them to behave other than they would with another proficient user.
Can express themselves appropriately in situations and avoid crass errors of formulation.

B1_Can adjust their expression to make some distinction between formal and informal registers but may not always do so appropriately.
Can perform and respond to a wide range of language functions, using their most common exponents in a neutral register.
Is aware of the salient politeness conventions and acts appropriately.
Is aware of, and looks out for signs of, the most significant differences between the customs, usages, attitudes, values and beliefs prevalent in the community concerned and those of their own community.

A2+_Can perform and respond to basic language functions, e.g. information exchange and requests, and express opinions and attitudes in a simple way.
Can socialise simply but effectively using the simplest common expressions and following basic routines.

A2_Can handle very short social exchanges, using everyday polite forms of greeting and address.
Can make and respond to invitations, suggestions, apologies, etc.

A1_Can establish basic social contact by using the simplest everyday polite forms of: greetings and farewells; introductions; saying please, thank you, sorry, etc.

Pre-A1_No descriptors available