Plurilingual comprehension

C2_No descriptors available; see B2

C1_No descriptors available; see B2

B2_Can use their knowledge of contrasting genre conventions and textual patterns in languages in their plurilingual repertoire in order to support comprehension.

B1_Can use what they have understood in one language to understand the topic and main message of a text in another language (e.g. when reading short newspaper articles in different languages on the same theme).
Can use parallel translations of texts (e.g. magazine articles, stories, passages from novels) to develop comprehension in different languages.
Can deduce the message of a text by exploiting what they have understood from texts on the same theme in different languages (e.g. news in brief, museum brochures, online reviews).
Can extract information from documents in different languages in their field (e.g. to include in a presentation).
Can recognise similarities and contrasts between the way concepts are expressed in different languages, in order to distinguish between identical uses of the same word/sign and “false friends”.
Can use their knowledge of contrasting grammatical structures and functional expressions of languages in their plurilingual repertoire in order to support comprehension.

A2_Can understand short, clearly articulated announcements by piecing together what they understand from the available versions in different languages.
Can understand short, clearly expressed messages and instructions by piecing together what they understand from the versions in different languages.
Can use simple warnings, instructions and product information given in parallel in different languages to find relevant information.

A1_Can recognise internationalisms and words/signs common to different languages (e.g. haus/hus/house) to: deduce the meaning of simple signs and notices; identify the probable message of a short, simple text; follow in outline short, simple social exchanges conducted very slowly and clearly in their presence; deduce what people are trying to say directly to them, provided the articulation is very slow and clear, with repetition if necessary.

Pre-A1_No descriptors available