Building on plurilingual repertoire

C2_Can interact in a multilingual context on abstract and specialised topics by alternating flexibly between languages in their plurilingual repertoire and if necessary explaining the different contributions made.
Can explore similarities and differences between metaphors and other figures of speech in the languages in their plurilingual repertoire, either for rhetorical effect or for fun.

C1_Can alternate between languages flexibly to facilitate communication in a multilingual context, summarising and glossing in different languages in their plurilingual repertoire contributions to the discussion and texts referred to.
Can participate effectively in a conversation in two or more languages in their plurilingual repertoire, adjusting to the changes of language and catering to the needs and linguistic skills of the interlocutors.
Can use and explain specialised terminology from another language in their plurilingual repertoire more familiar to the interlocutor(s), in order to improve understanding in a discussion of abstract and specialised topics.
Can respond spontaneously and flexibly in the appropriate language when someone else changes to another language in their plurilingual repertoire.
Can support comprehension and discussion of a text spoken, signed or written in one language by explaining, summarising, clarifying and expanding it in another language in their plurilingual repertoire.

B2_Can recognise the extent to which it is appropriate to make flexible use of different languages in their plurilingual repertoire in a specific situation, in order to increase the efficiency of communication.
Can alternate efficiently between languages in their plurilingual repertoire in order to facilitate comprehension with and between third parties who lack a common language.
Can introduce into an utterance an expression from another language in their plurilingual repertoire that is particularly apt for the situation/concept being discussed, explaining it for the interlocutor when necessary.
Can alternate between languages in their plurilingual repertoire in order to communicate specialised information and issues on a subject in their field of interest to different interlocutors.
Can make use of different languages in their plurilingual repertoire during collaborative interaction, in order to clarify the nature of a task, the main steps, the decisions to be taken and the outcomes expected.
Can make use of different languages in their plurilingual repertoire to encourage other people to use the language in which they feel more comfortable

B1_Can exploit creatively their limited repertoire in different languages in their plurilingual repertoire for everyday contexts, in order to cope with an unexpected situation.

A2_Can mobilise their limited repertoire in different languages in order to explain a problem or to ask for help or clarification.
Can use simple words/signs and phrases from different languages in their plurilingual repertoire to conduct a simple, practical transaction or information exchange.
Can use a simple word/sign from another language in their plurilingual repertoire to make themselves understood in a routine everyday situation, when they cannot think of an adequate expression in the language being used.

A1_Can use a very limited repertoire in different languages to conduct a very basic, concrete, everyday transaction with a collaborative interlocutor.

Pre-A1_No descriptors available