Online conversation and discussion

C2_Can express themselves with clarity and precision in real-time online discussion, adjusting language flexibly and sensitively to context, including emotional, allusive and joking usage.
Can anticipate and deal effectively with possible misunderstandings (including cultural ones), communication issues and emotional reactions in an online discussion.
Can easily and quickly adapt their register and style to suit different online environments, communication purposes and speech acts.

C1_Can engage in real-time online exchanges with several participants, understanding the communicative intentions and cultural implications of the various contributions.
Can participate effectively in live, online professional or academic discussion, asking for and giving further clarification of complex, abstract issues as necessary.
Can adapt their register according to the context of online interaction, moving from one register to the other within the same exchange if necessary.
Can evaluate, restate and challenge arguments in professional or academic live online chat and discussion.

B2+Can engage in online exchanges, linking their contributions to previous ones in the thread, understanding cultural implications and reacting appropriately.

B2_Can participate actively in an online discussion, stating and responding to opinions on topics of interest at some length, provided contributors avoid unusual or complex language and allow time for responses.
Can engage in online exchanges between several participants, effectively linking their contributions to previous ones in the thread, provided a moderator helps manage the discussion.
Can recognise misunderstandings and disagreements that arise in an online interaction and deal with them, provided the interlocutor(s) are willing to co-operate.

B1+_Can engage in real-time online exchanges with more than one participant, recognising the communicative intentions of each contributor, but may not understand details or implications without further explanation.
Can post online accounts of social events, experiences and activities referring to embedded links and media and sharing personal feelings.

B1_Can post a comprehensible contribution in an online discussion on a familiar topic of interest, provided they can prepare the text beforehand and use online tools to fill gaps in language and check accuracy.
Can make personal online postings about experiences, feelings and events and respond individually to the comments of others in some detail, though lexical limitations sometimes cause repetition and inappropriate formulation.

A2+Can introduce themselves and manage simple exchanges online, asking and answering questions and exchanging ideas on predictable everyday topics, provided enough time is allowed to formulate responses, and that they interact with one interlocutor at a time.
Can make short descriptive online postings about everyday matters, social activities and feelings, with simple key details.
Can comment on other people’s online postings, provided they are written/signed in simple language, reacting to embedded media by expressing feelings of surprise, interest and indifference in a simple way.

A2_Can engage in basic social communication online (e.g. a simple message on a virtual card for special occasions, sharing news and making/confirming arrangements to meet).
Can make brief positive or negative comments online about embedded links and media using a repertoire of basic language, though they will generally have to refer to an online translation tool and other resources.

A1_Can formulate very simple messages and personal online postings as a series of very short sentences about hobbies, likes/dislikes, etc., relying on the aid of a translation tool.
Can use formulaic expressions and combinations of simple words/signs to post short positive and negative reactions to simple online postings and their embedded links and media, and can respond to further comments with standard expressions of thanks and apology.

Pre-A1_Can post simple online greetings, using basic formulaic expressions and emoticons.
Can post online short simple statements about themselves (e.g. relationship status, nationality, occupation), provided they can select them from a menu and/or refer to an online translation tool.