Goal-oriented online transactions and collaboration

C2_Can resolve misunderstandings and deal effectively with frictions that arise during the collaborative 
process.
Can provide guidance and add precision to the work of a group at the redrafting and editing stages of 
collaborative work.

C1_Can co-ordinate a group that is working on a project online, formulating and revising detailed instructions, 
evaluating proposals from team members, and providing clarifications in order to accomplish the shared tasks.
Can deal with complex online transactions in a service role (e.g. applications with complicated 
requirements), adjusting language flexibly to manage discussions and negotiations.
Can participate in complex projects requiring collaborative writing and redrafting as well as other forms of 
online collaboration, following and relaying instructions with precision in order to reach the goal.
Can deal effectively with communication problems and cultural issues that arise in an online collaborative 
or transactional exchange by reformulating, clarifying and providing examples through media (visual, audio, graphic).

B2+_Can take a lead role in online collaborative work within their area(s) of expertise, keeping the group on task 
by reminding it of roles, responsibilities and deadlines in order to achieve established goals.
Can engage in online collaborative or transactional exchanges within their area(s) of expertise that require 
negotiation of conditions and explanation of complicated details and special requirements.
Can deal with misunderstandings and unexpected problems that arise in online collaborative or 
transactional exchanges by responding politely and appropriately in order to help resolve the issue.

B2_Can collaborate online with a group that is working on a project, justifying proposals, seeking clarification 
and playing a supportive role in order to accomplish shared tasks.

B1+_Can engage in online transactions that require an extended exchange of information, provided the 
interlocutor(s) avoid complex language and are willing to repeat and reformulate when necessary.
Can interact online with a group that is working on a project, following straightforward instructions, 
seeking clarification and helping to accomplish the shared tasks.

B1_Can engage in online collaborative or transactional exchanges that require simple clarification or 
explanation of relevant details, such as registering for a course, tour or event, or applying for membership.
Can interact online with a partner or small group working on a project, provided there are visual aids such 
as images, statistics and graphs to clarify more complex concepts.
Can respond to instructions and ask questions or request clarifications in order to accomplish a shared task 
online.

A2+_Can use formulaic language to respond to routine problems arising in online transactions (e.g. concerning 
availability of models and special offers, delivery dates, addresses).
Can interact online with a supportive partner in a simple collaborative task, responding to basic 
instructions and seeking clarification, provided there are visual aids such as images, statistics or graphs to 
clarify the concepts involved.

A2_Can make simple online transactions (e.g. ordering goods or enrolling in a course) by filling in an online 
form or questionnaire, providing personal details and confirming acceptance of terms and conditions, 
declining extra services, etc.
Can ask basic questions about the availability of a product or feature.
Can respond to simple instructions and ask simple questions in order to accomplish a shared task online 
with the help of a supportive interlocutor.

A1_Can complete a very simple online purchase or application, providing basic personal information (e.g. 
name, e-mail or telephone number).

Pre-A1_Can make selections (e.g. choosing a product, size, colour) in a simple online purchase or application form, 
provided there is visual support.