Conversation

C2_Can converse comfortably and appropriately, unhampered by any linguistic limitations in conducting a full social and personal life.

C1_Can use language flexibly and effectively for social purposes, including emotional, allusive and joking usage.

B2+_Can establish a relationship with interlocutors through sympathetic questioning and expressions of agreement plus, if appropriate, comments about third parties or shared conditions.
Can indicate reservations and reluctance, state conditions when agreeing to requests or granting permission, and ask for understanding of their own position.

B2_Can engage in extended conversation on most general topics in a clearly participatory fashion, even in a [audially/visually] noisy environment.
Can sustain relationships with users of the target language without unintentionally amusing or irritating them or requiring them to behave other than they would with another proficient language user.
Can convey degrees of emotion and highlight the personal significance of events and experiences.

B1+_Can start up a conversation and help keep it going by asking people relatively spontaneous questions 
about a special experience or event, expressing reactions and opinions on familiar subjects.
Can have relatively long conversations on subjects of common interest, provided the interlocutor makes an 
effort to support understanding.

B1_Can enter unprepared into conversations on familiar topics.
Can follow clearly articulated language directed at them in everyday conversation, though will sometimes 
have to ask for repetition of particular words/signs.
Can maintain a conversation or discussion but may sometimes be difficult to follow when trying to express exactly what they would like to.
Can express and respond to feelings such as surprise, happiness, sadness, interest and indifference.

A2+_Can establish social contact (e.g. greetings and farewells, introductions, giving thanks).
Can generally understand clear, standard language on familiar matters directed at them, provided they can 
ask for repetition or reformulation from time to time.
Can participate in short conversations in routine contexts on topics of interest.
Can express how they feel in simple terms, and express thanks.
Can ask for a favour (e.g. to borrow something), can offer a favour, and can respond if someone asks them 
to do a favour for them.

A2_Can handle very short social exchanges but is rarely able to understand enough to keep conversation 
going of their own accord, though they can be made to understand if the interlocutor will take the trouble.
Can use simple, everyday, polite forms of greeting and address.
Can converse in simple language with peers, colleagues or members of a host family, asking questions and understanding answers relating to most routine matters.
Can make and respond to invitations, suggestions and apologies.
Can express how they are feeling, using very basic stock expressions.
Can state what they like and dislike.

A1_Can understand everyday expressions aimed at the satisfaction of simple needs of a concrete type, 
delivered directly to them in clear, slow and repeated language by a sympathetic interlocutor.
Can take part in a simple conversation of a basic factual nature on a predictable topic (e.g. their home 
country, family, school).
Can make an introduction and use basic greeting and leave-taking expressions.
Can ask how people are and react to news.

Pre-A1_Can understand and use basic, formulaic expressions such as “Yes”, “No”, “Excuse me”, “Please”, “Thank you”, “No thank you”, “Sorry”.
Can recognise simple greetings.
Can greet people, state their name and take leave in a simple way.