Obtaining goods and services

C2_No descriptors available; see C1

C1_Can negotiate complex or sensitive transactions in public, professional or academic life.

B2+_Can cope linguistically to negotiate a solution to a dispute like an undeserved traffic ticket, financial 
responsibility for damage in a flat, or blame regarding an accident.
Can outline a case for compensation, using persuasive language to demand satisfaction and state clearly 
the limits to any concession they are prepared to make.

B2_Can state requirements and ask detailed questions regarding more complex services, e.g. rental 
agreements.
Can explain a problem which has arisen and make it clear that the provider of the service/customer must 
make a concession.
B1
Can deal with most transactions likely to arise while travelling, arranging travel or accommodation, or 
dealing with authorities during a foreign visit.
Can ask in a shop for an explanation of the difference between two or more products serving the same 
purpose, in order to make a decision, posing follow-up questions as necessary.
Can cope with less routine situations in shops, post offices, banks, e.g. returning an unsatisfactory purchase.
Can make a complaint.
Can deal with most situations likely to arise when making travel arrangements through an agent or when 
actually travelling, e.g. asking a passenger where to get off for an unfamiliar destination.
A2
Can deal with common aspects of everyday living such as travel, lodging, eating and shopping.
Can interact in predictable everyday situations (e.g. post office, station, shop), using a wide range of simple 
expressions.
Can get all the information needed from a tourist office, as long as it is of a straightforward, non-specialised nature.
Can ask for and provide everyday goods and services.
Can get simple information about travel, use public transport (e.g. buses, trains, taxis), ask and give 
directions, and buy tickets.
Can ask about things and make simple transactions in shops, post offices or banks.
Can give and receive information about quantities, numbers, prices, etc.
Can make simple purchases by stating what is wanted and asking the price.
Can order a meal.
Can point out when something is wrong (e.g. “The food is cold” or “There is no light in my room”).
Can ask (face-to-face) for a medical appointment and understand the reply. Can indicate the nature of a 
problem to a health professional, perhaps using gestures and body language.
A1
Can ask people for things and give people things.
Can ask for food and drink using basic expressions.
Can handle numbers, quantities, cost and time.
Pre-A1 Can make simple purchases and/or order food or drink when pointing or other gesture can support the 
verbal reference.