Overall oral interaction

C2_Has a good command of idiomatic expressions and colloquialisms with awareness of connotative levels of 
meaning. Can convey finer shades of meaning precisely by using, with reasonable accuracy, a wide range of modification devices. Can backtrack and restructure around a difficulty so smoothly that the interlocutor is hardly aware of it.

C1_Can express themselves fluently and spontaneously, almost effortlessly. Has a good command of a broad lexical repertoire allowing gaps to be readily overcome with circumlocutions. There is little obvious 
searching for expressions or avoidance strategies; only a conceptually difficult subject can hinder a natural, 
smooth flow of language.

B2+_Can use the language fluently, accurately and effectively on a wide range of general, academic, vocational 
or leisure topics, marking clearly the relationships between ideas. Can communicate spontaneously with 
good grammatical control without much sign of having to restrict what they want to say, adopting a level 
of formality appropriate to the circumstances.

B2_Can interact with a degree of fluency and spontaneity that makes regular interaction, and sustained relationships with users of the target language, quite possible without imposing strain on either party. Can highlight the personal significance of events and experiences, and account for and sustain views clearly by providing relevant explanations and arguments.

B1+_Can communicate with some confidence on familiar routine and non-routine matters related to their interests and professional field. Can exchange, check and confirm information, deal with less routine situations and explain why something is a problem. Can express thoughts on more abstract, cultural topics such as films, books, music, etc.

B1_Can exploit a wide range of simple language to deal with most situations likely to arise while travelling. 
Can enter unprepared into conversation on familiar topics, and express personal opinions and exchange information on topics that are familiar, of personal interest or pertinent to everyday life (e.g. family, 
hobbies, work, travel and current events).

A2+_Can interact with reasonable ease in structured situations and short conversations, provided the other 
person helps if necessary. Can manage simple, routine exchanges without undue effort; can ask and answer questions and exchange ideas and information on familiar topics in predictable everyday 
situations.

A2_Can communicate in simple and routine tasks requiring a simple and direct exchange of information on 
familiar and routine matters to do with work and free time. Can handle very short social exchanges but is 
rarely able to understand enough to keep conversation going of their own accord.

A1_Can interact in a simple way but communication is totally dependent on repetition at a slower rate, rephrasing and repair. Can ask and answer simple questions, initiate and respond to simple statements in areas of immediate need or on very familiar topics.

Pre-A1_Can ask and answer questions about themselves and daily routines, using short, formulaic expressions and relying on gestures to reinforce the information.