Interviewing and being interviewed

C2_Can keep up their side of the dialogue extremely well, structuring the discourse and interacting authoritatively with effortless fluency as interviewer or interviewee, at no disadvantage to other participants.

C1_Can participate fully in an interview, as either interviewer or interviewee, expanding and developing the point being discussed fluently without any support, and handling interjections well.

B2+_Can carry out an effective, fluent interview, departing spontaneously from prepared questions, following up and probing interesting replies.

B2_Can take the initiative in an interview, and expand and develop ideas with little help or prodding from an interviewer.

B1+_Can provide concrete information required in an interview/consultation (e.g. describe symptoms to a doctor), but with limited precision.
Can carry out a prepared interview, checking and confirming information, though they may occasionally have to ask for repetition if the other person’s response is rapid or extended.


B1_Can take some initiative in an interview/consultation (e.g. to bring up a new subject) but is very dependent on the interviewer in the interaction.
Can describe symptoms in a simple way and ask for advice when using health services, and can understand the answer, provided this is given clearly in everyday language.
Can use a prepared questionnaire to carry out a structured interview, with some spontaneous follow-up questions.

A2+_Can make themselves understood in an interview and communicate ideas and information on familiar topics, provided they can ask for clarification occasionally, and are given some help to express what they want to.
Can describe to a doctor very basic symptoms and ailments such as a cold or the flu.

A2_Can answer simple questions and respond to simple statements in an interview.
Can indicate in simple language the nature of a problem to a health professional, perhaps using gestures and body language.

A1_Can reply in an interview to simple direct questions, put very slowly and clearly in direct, non-idiomatic language, about personal details.
Can state in simple language the nature of a problem to a health professional and answer simple questions such as “Does that hurt?” even though they have to rely on gestures and body language to reinforce the message.

Pre-A1_No descriptors available
