Formal discussion (meetings)

C2_Can hold their own in formal discussion of complex issues, putting an articulate and persuasive argument, 
at no disadvantage to other participants.
Can advise on/handle complex, delicate or contentious issues, provided they have the necessary 
specialised knowledge.
Can deal with hostile questioning confidently, hold on to the turn and diplomatically rebut 
counter-arguments.

C1_Can easily keep up with the debate, even on abstract, complex, unfamiliar topics.
Can argue a formal position convincingly, responding to questions and comments and answering complex 
lines of counter-argument fluently, spontaneously and appropriately.
Can restate, evaluate and challenge contributions from other participants about matters within their 
academic or professional competence.
Can make critical remarks or express disagreement diplomatically.
Can follow up questions by probing for more detail and can reformulate questions if these are 
misunderstood.

B2+_Can keep up with an animated discussion, identifying accurately arguments supporting and opposing 
points of view.
Can use appropriate technical terminology when discussing their area of specialisation with other 
specialists.
Can express their ideas and opinions with precision, and present and respond to complex lines of 
argument convincingly.

B2_Can participate actively in routine and non-routine formal discussion.
Can follow the discussion on matters related to their field, understand in detail the points given prominence.
Can contribute, account for and sustain their opinion, evaluate alternative proposals and make and 
respond to hypotheses.

B1+_Can follow much of what is said that is related to their field, provided interlocutors avoid very idiomatic usage and articulate clearly.
Can put over a point of view clearly, but has difficulty engaging in debate.

B1_Can take part in routine formal discussion of familiar subjects which is clearly articulated in the standard 
form of the language or a familiar variety and which involves the exchange of factual information, receiving 
instructions or the discussion of solutions to practical problems.
Can follow argumentation and discussion on a familiar or predictable topic, provided the points are made 
in relatively simple language and/or repeated, and opportunity is given for clarification.

A2+_Can generally follow changes of topic in formal discussion related to their field which is conducted slowly 
and clearly.
Can exchange relevant information and give their opinion on practical problems when asked directly, 
provided they receive some help with formulation and can ask for repetition of key points if necessary.

A2_Can express what they think about things when addressed directly in a formal meeting, provided they can 
ask for repetition of key points if necessary.

A1_No descriptors available

Pre-A1_No descriptors available