Understanding an interlocutor

C2_Can understand any interlocutor, even on abstract and complex topics of a specialist nature beyond their own field, given an opportunity to adjust to a less familiar variety.

C1_Can understand an interlocutor in detail on abstract and complex topics of a specialist nature beyond their 
own field, though they may need to confirm occasional details, especially if the variety is unfamiliar.

B2_Can understand in detail what is said to them in the standard language or a familiar variety even in a [audially/visually] noisy environment.

B1_Can follow clearly articulated speech/sign directed at them in everyday conversation, though will 
sometimes have to ask for repetition of particular words/signs and phrases.

A2+_Can understand enough to manage simple, routine exchanges without undue effort.
Can generally understand clear, standard speech/sign on familiar matters directed at them, provided they can ask for repetition or reformulation from time to time.

A2_Can understand what is said clearly, slowly and directly to them in simple everyday conversation; can be 
made to understand, if the interlocutor can take the trouble.

A1_Can understand everyday expressions aimed at the satisfaction of simple needs of a concrete type, delivered directly to them clearly and slowly, with repetition, by a sympathetic interlocutor.
Can understand questions and instructions addressed carefully and slowly to them and follow short, 
simple directions.

Pre-A1_Can understand simple questions that directly concern them (e.g. name, age and address), if the person is asking slowly and clearly.
Can understand simple personal information (e.g. name, age, place of residence, origin) when other people introduce themselves slowly and clearly, directly to them, and can understand questions on this theme addressed to them, though the questions may need to be repeated.
Can understand a number of familiar words/signs and recognise key information (e.g. numbers, prices, dates and days of the week), provided the delivery is very slow, with repetition if necessary.