Informal discussion (with friends) 

C2_Can advise on or discuss sensitive issues without awkwardness, understanding colloquial references and dealing diplomatically with disagreement and criticism.

C1_Can easily follow and contribute to complex interactions between third parties in group discussion even on abstract, complex unfamiliar topics.

B2+_Can keep up with an animated discussion between proficient users of the target language.
Can express their ideas and opinions with precision, and present and respond to complex lines of argument convincingly.

B2_Can take an active part in informal discussion in familiar contexts, commenting, putting a point of view clearly, evaluating alternative proposals and making and responding to hypotheses.
Can with some effort catch much of what is said around them in discussion, but may find it difficult to participate effectively in discussion with several users of the target language who do not modify their language in any way.
Can account for and sustain their opinions in discussion by providing relevant explanations, arguments and comments.

B1+_Can follow much of what is said around them on general topics, provided interlocutors avoid very idiomatic usage and articulate clearly.
Can express their thoughts about abstract or cultural topics such as music or films.
Can explain why something is a problem.
Can give brief comments on the views of others.
Can compare and contrast alternatives, discussing what to do, where to go, who or which to choose, etc.

B1_Can generally follow the main points in an informal discussion with friends provided they articulate clearly in standard language or a familiar variety.
Can give or seek personal views and opinions in discussing topics of interest.
Can make their opinions and reactions understood as regards solutions to problems or practical questions of where to go, what to do, or how to organise an event (e.g. an outing).
Can express beliefs, opinions and agreement and disagreement politely.

A2+_Can generally identify the topic of discussion around them when it is conducted slowly and clearly.
Can exchange opinions and compare things and people using simple language.
Can discuss what to do in the evening or at the weekend.
Can make and respond to suggestions.
Can agree and disagree with others.

A2_Can discuss everyday practical issues in a simple way when addressed clearly, slowly and directly.
Can discuss what to do, where to go and make arrangements to meet.
Can express opinions in a limited way.

A1_Can exchange likes and dislikes for sports, foods, etc., using a limited repertoire of expressions, when addressed clearly, slowly and directly.

Pre-A1_No descriptors available