Goal-oriented co-operation (cooking together, discussing a document, organising an event, etc.)

C2_No descriptors available; see C1

C1_Can frame a discussion to decide on a course of action with a partner or group, reporting on what others have said, and summarising, elaborating and weighing up multiple points of view.

B2_Can understand detailed instructions reliably.
Can help along the progress of the work by inviting others to join in, express what they think, etc.
Can outline an issue or a problem clearly, speculating about causes or consequences, and weighing advantages and disadvantages of different approaches.

B1+_Can follow what is said, though they may occasionally have to ask for repetition or clarification if the discussion is rapid or extended.
Can explain why something is a problem, discuss what to do next, and compare and contrast alternatives.
Can give brief comments on the views of others.

B1_Can generally follow what is said and, when necessary, repeat back part of what someone has said to confirm mutual understanding.
Can make their opinions and reactions understood as regards possible solutions or the question of what to do next, giving brief reasons and explanations.
Can invite others to give their views on how to proceed.

A2+_Can understand enough to manage simple, routine tasks without undue effort, asking very simply for repetition when they do not understand.
Can discuss what to do next, making and responding to suggestions, and asking for and giving directions.

A2_Can indicate when they are following and can be made to understand what is necessary, if the interlocutor takes the trouble.
Can communicate in simple and routine tasks using simple phrases to ask for and provide things, to get simple information and to discuss what to do next.

A1_Can understand questions and instructions addressed carefully and slowly to them and follow short, simple directions.
Can act on basic instructions that involve times, locations, numbers, etc.
Can ask people for things, and give people things.

Pre-A1_No descriptors available