Correspondence

C2_Can compose virtually any type of correspondence necessary in the course of their professional life in an appropriate tone and style.

C1_Can express themselves with clarity and precision in personal correspondence, using language flexibly and effectively, including emotional, allusive and joking usage.
Can, with good expression and accuracy, compose formal correspondence such as letters of clarification, application, recommendation, reference, complaint, sympathy and condolence.

B2+_Can maintain a relationship through personal correspondence using the language fluently and effectively to give detailed descriptions of experiences, pose sympathetic questions and follow up issues of mutual interest.
Can in most cases understand idiomatic expressions and colloquialisms in correspondence and other communications and use the most common ones themselves as appropriate to the situation.
Can compose formal correspondence such as letters of enquiry, request, application and complaint using appropriate register, structure and conventions.
Can compose a forceful but polite letter of complaint, including supporting details and a statement of the desired outcome.

B2_Can compose letters conveying degrees of emotion and highlighting the personal significance of events and experiences and commenting on the correspondent’s news and views.
Can use formality and conventions appropriate to the context when writing personal and professional letters and e-mails.
Can compose formal e-mails/letters of invitation, thanks or apology using appropriate registers and conventions.
Can compose non-routine professional letters, using appropriate structure and conventions, provided these are restricted to matters of fact.
Can obtain, by letter or e-mail, information required for a particular purpose, collate it and forward it by e-mail to other people.

B1+_Can compose personal letters giving news and expressing thoughts about abstract or cultural topics such as music or film.
Can compose letters expressing different opinions and giving detailed accounts of personal feelings and experiences.
Can reply to an advertisement in writing and ask for further information on items that interest them.
Can compose basic formal e-mails/letters (e.g. to make a complaint and request action).

B1_Can compose personal letters describing experiences, feelings and events in some detail.
Can compose basic e-mails/letters of a factual nature (e.g. to request information or to ask for and give confirmation).
Can compose a basic letter of application with limited supporting details.

A2+_Can exchange information by text message, by e-mail or in short letters, responding to questions from the other person (e.g. about a new product or activity).

A2_Can convey personal information of a routine nature, for example in a short e-mail or letter introducing themselves.
Can compose very simple personal letters expressing thanks and apology.
Can compose short, simple notes, e-mails and text messages (e.g. to send or reply to an invitation, to confirm or change an arrangement).
Can compose a short text in a greetings card (e.g. for someone’s birthday or to wish them a Happy New Year).

A1_Can compose messages and online postings as a series of very short sentences about hobbies and likes/dislikes, using simple words and formulaic expressions, with reference to a dictionary.
Can compose a short, simple postcard.
Can compose a short, very simple message (e.g. a text message) to friends to give them a piece of information or to ask them a question.

Pre-A1_Can convey basic personal information in short phrases and sentences, with reference to a dictionary.