Sustained monologue: describing experience
C2_Can give clear, smoothly flowing, elaborate and often memorable descriptions.

C1_Can give clear, detailed descriptions of complex subjects.
Can give elaborate descriptions and narratives, integrating sub-themes, developing particular points and 
rounding them off with an appropriate conclusion.

B2_Can give clear, detailed descriptions on a wide range of subjects related to their field of interest.
Can describe the personal significance of events and experiences in detail.

B1+_Can clearly express feelings about something experienced and give reasons to explain those feelings.

B1_Can give straightforward descriptions on a variety of familiar subjects within their field of interest.
Can reasonably fluently relate a straightforward narrative or description as a sequence of points.
Can give detailed accounts of experiences, describing feelings and reactions.
Can relate details of unpredictable occurrences, e.g. an accident.
Can relate the plot of a book or film and describe their reactions.
Can describe dreams, hopes and ambitions.
Can describe events, real or imagined.
Can narrate a story.

A2+_Can tell a story or describe something in a simple list of points.
Can describe everyday aspects of their environment, e.g. people, places, a job or study experience.
Can give short, basic descriptions of events and activities.
Can describe plans and arrangements, habits and routines, past activities and personal experiences.
Can use simple descriptive language to make brief statements about and compare objects and 
possessions.
Can explain what they like or dislike about something.

A2_Can describe their family, living conditions, educational background, present or most recent job.
Can describe people, places and possessions in simple terms.
Can express what they are good at and not so good at (e.g. sports, games, skills, subjects).
Can briefly describe what they plan to do at the weekend or during the holidays.

A1-Can describe themselves, what they do and where they live.
Can describe simple aspects of their everyday life in a series of simple sentences, using simple words/signs 
and basic phrases, provided they can prepare in advance.

Pre-A1_Can describe themselves (e.g. name, age, family), using simple words/signs and formulaic expressions, 
provided they can prepare in advance.
Can express how they are feeling using simple adjectives like “happy” or “tired”, accompanied by body 
language.