Addressing audiences

C2_Can present a complex topic confidently and articulately to an audience unfamiliar with it, structuring and adapting the talk flexibly to meet the audience’s needs.
Can handle difficult and even hostile questioning.

C1_Can give a clear, well-structured presentation on a complex subject, expanding and supporting points of view at some length with subsidiary points, reasons and relevant examples.
Can structure a longer presentation appropriately in order to help the audience follow the sequence of ideas and understand the overall argumentation.
Can speculate or hypothesise in presenting a complex subject, comparing and evaluating alternative proposals and arguments.
Can handle interjections well, responding spontaneously and almost effortlessly.

B2+_Can give a clear, systematically developed presentation, with highlighting of significant points, and relevant supporting detail.
Can depart spontaneously from a prepared text and follow up interesting points raised by members of the audience, often showing remarkable fluency and ease of expression.

B2_Can give a clear, prepared presentation, giving reasons in support of or against a particular point of view 
and giving the advantages and disadvantages of various options.
Can take a series of follow-up questions with a degree of fluency and spontaneity which poses no strain for 
either themselves or the audience.

B1+_Can give a prepared presentation on a familiar topic within their field, outlining similarities and differences 
(e.g. between products, countries/regions, plans).

B1_Can give a prepared straightforward presentation on a familiar topic within their field which is clear 
enough to be followed without difficulty most of the time, and in which the main points are explained with 
reasonable precision.
Can take follow-up questions, but may have to ask for repetition if the delivery is rapid.

A2+_Can give a short, rehearsed presentation on a topic pertinent to their everyday life, and briefly give reasons 
and explanations for opinions, plans and actions.
Can cope with a limited number of straightforward follow-up questions.

A2_Can give a short, rehearsed, basic presentation on a familiar subject.
Can answer straightforward follow-up questions if they can ask for repetition and if some help with the 
formulation of their reply is possible.

A1_Can use a very short prepared text to deliver a rehearsed statement (e.g. to formally introduce someone, to 
propose a toast).

Pre-A1_No descriptors available