Reports and essays

C2_Can produce clear, smoothly flowing, complex reports, articles or essays which present a case, or give critical appreciation of proposals or literary works.
Can provide an appropriate and effective logical structure which helps the reader identify significant points.
Can set out multiple perspectives on complex academic or professional topics, clearly distinguishing their own ideas and opinions from those in the sources.

C1_Can produce clear, well-structured expositions of complex subjects, underlining the relevant salient issues.
Can expand and support points of view at some length with subsidiary points, reasons and relevant examples.
Can produce a suitable introduction and conclusion to a longer report, article or dissertation on a complex academic or professional topic provided the topic is within their field of interest and there are opportunities for redrafting and revision.

B2+_Can produce an essay or report which develops an argument systematically with appropriate highlighting of significant points and relevant supporting detail.
Can produce a detailed description of a complex process.
Can evaluate different ideas or solutions to a problem.

B2_Can produce an essay or report which develops an argument, giving reasons in support of or against a particular point of view and explaining the advantages and disadvantages of various options.
Can synthesise information and arguments from a number of sources.

B1+_Can produce short, simple essays on topics of interest.
Can produce a text on a topical subject of personal interest, using simple language to list advantages and disadvantages, and give and justify their opinion.
Can summarise, report and give their opinion about accumulated factual information on familiar routine and non-routine matters within their field with some confidence.

B1_Can produce very brief reports in a standard conventionalised format, which pass on routine factual information and state reasons for actions.
Can present a topic in a short report or poster, using photographs and short blocks of text.

A2_Can produce simple texts on familiar subjects of interest, linking sentences with connectors like “and”, “because” or “then”.
Can give their impressions and opinions about topics of personal interest (e.g. lifestyles and culture, stories), using basic everyday vocabulary and expressions.

A1_No descriptors available

Pre-A1_ No descriptors available